so everything which comes into our mind
if we recognize it in the moment that it
arises if we accept it we can then just
let it go we don't have to hold on to it
we don't have to give it energy we don't
have to be swept away we are on the
riverbank looking at the river flowing
we are not right in the middle of the
river being swept along we can all do
this the nature of the mind is is
naturally knowing without that we would
be dead so all we have to do is go back
to what we really are and stop
identifying with the wrong thing there
was a very great ty forest master code
ajahn Chah and recently I was reading
his biography and in that when he was in
the forest training under several
masters at some point she came to
exactly this he realized that basically
the mind I wish I had I should have
brought it with me he puts it very
succinctly but that the mind basically
is that which is known and that which
knows and the whole point is simply to
dwell with that which knows start
identifying with that which knows and
stop identifying with the known that's
all it's so easy really
I mean ninety-eight percent of your
problems are solved if not 100 just by
doing that
but we don't do it it's interesting that
we don't do it when one is in the
presence of a very great Lama with whom
there is a deep karmic connection it can
happen that if one's own mind is very
open and receptive completely without
expectations but very open he can give
what is called when Tibetan is called
neutral
it means like pointing at introducing
you and he can introduce you to the
nature of the mind he doesn't give you
anything you already have it and it's a
very simple experience it's nothing it's
not you know rainbow lights and trumpets
it's very simple but in that moment just
for a moment everything falls apart and
there is just that moment of total naked
awareness it's extremely simple it's so
simple that you can miss it very easily
because we always expect that somehow
it's going to be some really great
experience something really and normally
it's so plain so bare
that almost people might think that
can't be it
one time one of our Yogi's of the hill
was giving a lung an oral transmission
of one very famous sob context of Chen
is the mind training of the Ning Mapo
school and he was of course reading it
out and then he stopped and he said you
know the problem with these kind of
books is that it makes it all sound very
high and very far and very fantastic and
it's so simple it's so right here and so
you're looking out there in the future
for some incredible thing to happen and
all the time actually
a moment a moment is already happening
but we don't recognize it you see every
time you hear a sound everything you see
you can only see you can only recognize
a sound because of awareness if we have
no awareness we would be like a corpse
but we don't recognize that awareness
because we're so fascinated by our
senses do you understand
because we're so captivated by by this
this panorama outside and all the
panorama inside all our thoughts and
memories and daydreams and hopes and
dreams we miss the fact that behind all
that is the knowing of it